Applied ProjectGeneral Course Information: Faculty name/title: Dr. Andres Fortino, Adjunct Associate ProfessorFaculty NYU email address: agf249@nyu.edu Course title/number: Applied Project (MASY1-GC4100- 302)Credits as applicable: 3Semester/Year: Spring 2021 Session: 1Number of Classes: 14 sessionsDates/Day(s): 02/03/2021 – 05/05/2021 / WednesdaysTime: 06:20 PM to 8:55 PM EST/EDT No Class Dates: N/AMode of Delivery: Online - Asynchronous & Synchrounous, Hybrid format. – This class meets online synchronously for the first 7 sessions via Zoom, followed by 7 weeks of Asynchronous (pre-recorded) sessions. Class meetings for the rest of the semester are asynchronous.Class meetings 03-Feb-2021 to 05-May-2021; for a total of 14 sessions, as follows: • Remote, synchronously: (7 live sessions) 3-Feb-2021 through 17-Mar-2021, Wednesdays, 06:20 PM to 8:55 PM EST/EDT AND THEN:• Remote, asynchronously: (7 pre-recorded sessions) 24-Mar-2021 through 5-May-2021. Office Hours: Wednesdays, 2:00-5:00 PM EST/EDT, by appointment only. If you would like to schedule a meeting, please send an email to the instructor at least two days prior to the date you would like to meet.Course Description:Where academically warranted and subject to departmental approval, the student will undertake and deliver a real-world project for active practitioners in the field. Under the direction of a faculty supervisor, the student will select and explore a topic to be developed. The student will then be required to generate a practical application of his/her findings that demonstrates professional level mastery of the subject matter involved. The project will be reviewed by the faculty supervisor and possibly one other expert in the field.Course Prerequisites:Students must have completed all core courses.Course Structure/Method:This course meets according to an online hybrid format, i.e. a combination of weekly synchronous and asynchronous sessions as follows:For the first 7 sessions, online, synchronously. Then, for the following 7 weeks, the course will switch to an asynchronous format as students will be conducting their individual projects during this time. In addition, during the last 7 weeks, individual project kick-off meetings will be held with the instructor and each individual student and their sponsor, followed by project status conferences with the instructor and each individual student.Students are required to complete all planning assignments during the initial 7 weeks as these assignments constitute the project planning phase which must be completed prior to beginning the actual project. These assignments will be referred to as “deliverables” using the parlance of project management and adhere to the PMI project management methodology knowledge areas that form the basis for our approach to project management.Students are required to regularly check NYU classes for assignments and other important course information.During the remaining 7 weeks of the course students must schedule status conference calls with the course professor using the shared Google calendar that will be provided by the instructor. Initial meetings must include the project sponsor.Starting with week 8 and continuing until the completion of each student’s project, students are required to file a project status report using the template supplied by the instructor and found in the Resources section of NYU classes. Upon completion of the project, each student is required to submit a final report containing information described in the Final Report Guidelines document provided by the instructor in the Resources section of NYU Classes. The final report must include a signed Sponsor Project Acceptance Document using the template supplied by the instructor in the Resources section of NYU classes. Please note that this course has now been designated a “graded course.” This means that upon completion of all course deliverables (assignments), and completion of the project and the final report, students will receive a letter grade. (In the past this course utilized a “Pass/Fail” grading format.)Course Learning Outcomes:At the conclusion of this course, students will be able to:● Design a project proposal that will be used to initiate, conduct, and complete an Applied Project (completed within the initial 7-week online course timeframe).● Design a situational analysis (completed by Lesson 11).● Generate a literature survey (completed by Lesson 12).● Design a project charter and associated work breakdown structure (WBS), risk analysis and communications plan (completed within the initial 7-week synchronous course timeframe).● Select a Project Sponsor who is a management-level individual at the organization benefitting from the Applied Project. The Project Sponsor must have the authority to approve the student's Project Proposal and any required resources and be available throughout the project to act as the student's mentor for the project. The Project Sponsor will also be asked to approve in writing the student's work at key intervals throughout the course and the ensuing project and be available for at least one meeting (virtual or in-person) with the course professor.● Design a project goal and a set of project objectives that will include metrics for demonstrating project success (completed within the initial 7-week online course timeframe).● Conduct an Applied Project while operating in the dual role of (a) Project Manager employing the Project Management Body of Knowledge methodology and (b) Project Implementer, successfully meeting the project goal and objectives all within the timeframe set forth in the project plan section of the project proposal. (This will extend beyond the initial 7-week online course timeframe).● Write a post-project final report describing the project, its planning phase, and its implementation phase. Communication Policy: This course will use the NYU Classes learning management system for the delivery of course materials and for course communications.Important course information, announcements, updates, course presentations and other materials will be posted on the NYU Classes learning management system. Course announcements will also be simultaneously forwarded by the NYU Classes learning management system to students' NYU email addresses. Students are expected and required to be aware of any such announcements or communications and are advised to check the announcements as well as their NYU email address regularly during the 14-week duration of the course as well as afterward, while conducting their Applied Project. Credit students must use their NYU email to communicate. Non-degree students do not have NYU email addresses. NYU Classes course-mail supports student privacy and FERPA guidelines.The instructor’s email address is agf249@nyu.edu and it is checked regularly and frequently; students will usually receive a reply within 12 hours during the workweek. The instructor does not have access to an NYU telephone number. The instructor will conduct office hours using Skype, or Google Hangouts, or by telephone, or in-person at the NYU campus—by appointment. If you would like to schedule a meeting, please send an email to the instructor at least two days prior to the date you would like to meet. You should also suggest an alternative date in case the first date is not available. Discussion through online platforms will require that you have speakers and a microphone. A video camera is highly recommended.Students have the opportunity to add their pronouns, as well as the pronunciation of their names, into Albert. Students can have this information displayed to faculty in Albert, NYU Classes, and other NYU systems. Students can also opt out of having their pronouns viewed by their instructors.https://www.nyu.edu/students/student-information-and-resources/registration-records-and-graduation/forms-policies-procedures/change-of-student-information/pronouns-and-name-pronunciation.htmlCourse Expectations:Attendance:Students are expected to attend all classes. Excused absences are granted in cases of documented serious illness, family emergency, religious observance, or civic obligation. In the case of religious observance or civic obligation, this should be reported in advance. Students are responsible for assignments given during any absence. Unexcused absences from sessions may have a negative impact on a student’s final grade, and thus may result in a student receiving a failing grade. Students who expect to be late must also send an email prior to that class meeting. The instructor will send back an email with a response. Unexcused, may result in a student’s grade being lowered and possibly receiving a failing grade. A student who has three unexcused absences may earn a Fail grade (F).University Calendar Policy on Religious Holidays: https://www.nyu.edu/about/policies-guidelines-compliance/policies-and-guidelines/university-calendar-policy-on-religious-holidays.htmlStudents who join the course during add/drop are responsible for ensuring that they identify what assignments and preparatory work they have missed and complete and submit those per the syllabus.Classroom Expectations: As graduate students, you are expected to conduct yourselves in a professional manner and engage and collaborate with your classmates in the Zoom meeting room. Here are our guiding principles:• Dress as if you are in the Classroom.• Keep your microphone muted unless asking a question or engaging in discussion.• Check your video and audio when entering your class session.• Think background, minimize distractions around you.• Look into the camera instead of looking at the screen.• Type quietly, mute if necessary.• Don’t eat during a Zoom class session and refrain from engaging in any activity such as smoking, consuming alcohol, etc. that you would not engage in if the class was in person. SPS classrooms are diverse and include students who range in age, culture, learning styles, and levels of professional experience. To maintain an inclusive environment that ensures all students can equally participate with and learn from each other, as well as receive feedback and instruction from faculty during group discussions in the classroom, all course-based discussions and group projects should occur in a language that is shared among all participants.Assignments: The student will undertake and deliver a real-world project for active practitioners in the field. Under the direction of a faculty supervisor, the student will select and explore a topic to be developed. The student will then be required to generate a practical application of his/her findings that demonstrates professional level mastery of the subject matter involved. The project will be reviewed by the faculty supervisor and one other expert in the field.In addition to the array of opportunities for networking and applied learning provided by the M.S. in Management and Systems program, the applied project offers a truly singular opportunity to give back to your community through your newly honed technical and management skills. The project offers you the chance to work with a startup company or nonprofit organization or business enterprise and propose a solution to a real business need. Each year, the program partners with nonprofit organizations to design student projects that not only advance your business acumen and technological skills, but also further your commitment to social responsibility.This capstone course will give students the opportunity to demonstrate mastery of the Management and Systems subject matter by conducting a real-world applied project for a real-world organization that brings real-world business value. The project will also serve as a means of acquiring additional knowledge and expertise in one or more of the knowledge domains covered in the Management and Systems M.S. program. Students plan, conduct, and implement the applied project and act in a dual-role capacity: 1. the project manager and 2. the project implementerStudent projects follow the internationally recognized standard Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) methodology and framework sponsored by Project Management Institute (PMI). Each student will work under the direction of a project sponsor who is a management-level individual in the “client” organization for which the project is being conducted, who has both the responsibility and the authority to approve the project and any required resources, mentor the student, and review and approve all project deliverables such as project plans, project progress, status reports, and the final project report. The course professor will oversee the student’s progress and offer mentoring to the student during the course duration and afterwards as the project progresses.In order to qualify for entry into this course, students must have an approved project—i.e. the project has been pre-approved by the course professor prior to the start of the course. The student proposes a project idea and the student’s project proposal outline must be approved by the course professor prior to the student's entry into the course. Students prepare a project outline utilizing an instructor-provided template, which describes the project in sufficient detail for the evaluator to accept or reject the project idea. A rejection will usually be accompanied with feedback and suggestions for the student to modify the proposal outline, where feasible. The course is scheduled for 14-weeks, with the first 7-weeks devoted to learning activities as a group. Each student will prepare their own individual deliverables relating directly to each student’s project. Each student’s work will thus be evaluated individually by the instructor with appropriate feedback as needed. At the end of the initial 7-weeks of online sessions, the course professor meets individually with each student and sponsor team to review the project goal, objectives and metrics as well as the entire project plan (Project Charter, Situational Analysis Work Breakdown Structure, communications plan, risk management plan, etc.). During this time, the instructor will provide additional lessons in an asynchronous (pre-recorded) format. These final 7-weeks are also dedicated to individual mentoring conferences between the professor and each individual student to monitor progress and guide the student in their project activities.Synchronous course sessions will be conducted online using the Zoom online learning system, which is accessible via NYU Classes, the NYU learning management system. The course will be conducted in a hybrid fashion utilizing a combination of live (synchronous) online sessions and pre-recorded (asynchronous) sessions. Asynchronous sessions (pre-recorded) will be made available via NYU Stream. A URL link to each recording will be provided once the session has been recorded. The schedule of sessions will also be posted on the course’s NYU Classes learning management system. During the first 7-week period of formal instruction comprising the course, the student will learn how to define project objectives and metrics and how to plan and manage a real-world applied project. Each student will prepare a written proposal document that describes the target environment, the details of the project and the goal and objectives of the project. The proposal will be used to recruit a project sponsor within the client organization who will act as the “client” manager for the student during the project. The word “client” does not imply that any monetary payments will be made for the student’s work—although 3 credits will be awarded upon successful completion of the course and all deliverables (see next paragraph).Students will need to have read and agree to the University’s internships terms and conditions for students as published on the Wasserman website for students. In addition, the “client” sponsor must also agree in writing to the terms and conditions for employers on the Wasserman website for Employers location. A document to be used for recording the sponsor and student agreements will be provided in the NYU Classes Learning Management System in the Resources section.• Students will learn to develop a project goal and a set of objectives and related metrics for measuring the eventual achievement of those objectives once the applied project has been completed. • Students conduct a situational analysis to understand the components of the environment in which the organization operates and in which the project will be conducted, the industry the business is part of, the competitors against whom the business competes, and the business’s own culture using tools such as Porter's 5-forces Model. • This is followed by a literature survey that is conducted by each student to learn about best practices, case studies, papers, and other information artifacts that can be leveraged to understand the optimal approach to conducting the applied project to achieve the desired results. • Students will develop a project charter that will be used to fully describe the approach, methodology, resources, timelines and milestones of the project. • A project management work breakdown structure will be constructed to plan the project deliverables and the activities, and resources necessary to achieve each deliverable. These deliverables must be approved and signed-off by the Project Sponsor.Once the above initial 7-week group instruction period is concluded, each student will embark upon his/her applied project within the "client" organization. Subsequently, for the remaining 7-weeks of the course, the professor will schedule individual mentoring conferences with each student to ensure successful startup and initiation of the student’s project. Since each individual project is unique, these individualized mentoring sessions will be held individually, without the entire class present. This course requires each student to complete their project within the same semester in which they began, i.e., at the end of the full 14-week course. The exact due date by which the final report must be submitted will be published in the course website.Individual projects and final reports are subject to the completion dates for each semester as published elsewhere in the course, and subject to SPS and NYU regulations. Students are required to file a monthly project status report throughout the duration of their project, using a format specified during the course. The status report should be signed by the student and the student's project sponsor—signed documents can be submitted as PDF scans. Assignment drop-boxes will be provided on the NYU Classes learning management system course site for monthly status reports and all other course deliverables.At the completion of the student’s applied project, each student will write a mandatory final report paper describing the project and demonstrating achievement of the project goals and each of the objectives as measured by the metrics developed during the planning stage. The final report must cover the items listed in the final report template document published elsewhere in the course. The project sponsor must sign-off on the achievement of the project goal and each objective at the planned metric level and attest to the successful completion of the project. Once the final paper has been graded and accepted by the instructor, the student will have completed the course requirements, provided that all course deliverables (assignments) have also been satisfactorily completed. Missed and/or Late assignments are permitted only with advance notice to, and permission from, the instructor. Otherwise, a student will receive a failing grade. Technology Policy:All class sessions require Zoom. Establishing an environment of mutual respect and exchange in the classroom requires a commitment to presence in discussions and full attention to the course materials presented in class. In the interest of ensuring that attention stays focused on your classmates and class discussions, use of laptops, cellphones, and other electronic devices is not permitted during the session unless required for a class activity.NYUClasses SupportTo learn more about NYU Classes, visit the Training and Support website, or browse the NYU ServiceLink website for support articles relating to NYUClasses. Other Helpful Tools• Setting Your Time Zone in NYUClasses• Make sure you are using NYU Zoom to log-in for class• Check the NYU Zoom site often for updates. (To update Zoom, you can also open from your desktop and click menu, then “Check for Updates.”) Class Participation: Participation means contributing to the discussion versus simply speaking in class; forum; it also means actively listening and building on the questions and discussion points of your classmates. As graduate students, you are expected to conduct yourselves in a professional manner and engage and collaborate with your classmates.Required and Recommended Material:Readings:A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK® Guide) - 5th edition or later, by Project Management Institute (PMI). Published: 2013, ISBN-13: 978-1935589679, ISBN-10: 1935589679. Available from Amazon.com as a paperback book ($38.96) or as a Kindle eBook ($19.99)This book is also available as a free viewable eBook via NYU Home (home.nyu.edu), as follows: • Select the “Research” tab and then search for “PMBOK” or “Project Management Body of Knowledge.” • Select the fifth (or later) Edition. The book can be viewed and read but not downloaded.Recommended but Optional Textbook:Additional required and optional readings will be posted to NYU Classes learning management system during the course. These will be case studies or other tutorial materials linked from the Internet.Assessment Strategy:By the end of the 14-week course, students must have completed the following:1. Successfully complete all course assignments. In this course we employ Project Management terminology, and these are referred to as “deliverables.” • On-time submission, as per the schedule published in the Resources section of the NYU Classes course learning management system, including sponsor signatures, where specified.• Includes baseline WBS and all other deliverables, 2. Successfully complete the applied project• Meet approved project goal and objectives achieving the metrics that you developed during project planning• Submit monthly status reports and updated WBS (signed by sponsor)• Obtain sponsor acceptance sign-off (signed by sponsor)3. Successfully complete the Final Report• Following the Final Report guidelines document published in the Resources section of our course on NYU Classes.• Meet the published deadline for submission (available on the course site).• Provide sponsor sign-off• Receive professor’s approvalFinal Report: Upon completion of their project, each student must submit a final report describing their project and its results. A complete guidelines document will explain what is to be included in the final report. The paper should be in the range of 50 pages, minimum. Below is a summary of the required contents of the report: Breakdown of Assessment for AssignmentsI Introductory Sections• Table of Contents• Abstract• GlossaryII Body of the Papera. Introduction including Company Name and Background and Sponsor Information. This is the organization for which the project was conducted.b. Problem Description/Opportunity – Describe the business problem or opportunity that needed to be solved or exploited.c. Importance of the Project to the organizationd. Alternate Solutions Evaluated – describe other solutions that were considerede. Solution Evaluation Criteria- describe the criteria that were established to evaluate solutions and select the final one.f. Selection Rationale - how did you decide which solution to selectg. Approach and Methodology of your projecth. Project Objectives and Metrics for Project Evaluation – describe the Goals, Objectives, and metrics specified for evaluating the project’s success. These are the metrics established at the start of the project, approved by the project sponsor, and included in the Project Proposal.i. Risk Analysis – what risks were possible and what strategies were in place to resolve or mitigate the risks. j. Issues Encountered – describe issues that arose and how they were handled. Were any of these issues part of your risk management strategy? If so, how did your mitigation strategies resolve the issues?k. Detailed Project Chronology and Critique – Described what transpired during the course of the project. What were the lessons learned? What might you have done better?l. Lessons Learned – Each student is expected to have learned something from the Applied Project experience. Describe what you have learned in the course of planning and conducting your project. For example, you may have mastered a new body of knowledge e.g., how to conduct search engine optimization, or how to develop a web page using Dreamweaver. Or you may have acquired new project management skills such as or perfected your stakeholder management skills, or risk management, etc.m. Conclusions and Summary n. Limitations, Recommendations and Scope for Future Work – what was not included and should have been; areas for further work, areas deemed out of scope or deferred to future projects.o. Literature Survey - what are the best practices in this are; what has been written on this subject that helped in gaining an understanding of how to proceed.p. References and Bibliography- use APA format. III Appendicesa. Project Acceptance Document, as shown in the templates section. This is an important and required part of the paper and validates that your Applied Project sponsor has accepted your project and that you have met the Metrics for Project Evaluation as devised at the start of the project and shown earlier in the paper. Any deviations from the initial metrics goals that are acceptable to the project sponsor must be shown and explained on the document. The student should complete the document and obtain the sponsor’s signature and comments.b. Project Charter– include your project charter documentc. Project Plan, Baseline and Actual WBS – discuss deviations from baseline; reasons, and actions taken.d. Situational Analysis – include the Situational Analysis Document that you prepared earlier in the project. e. Other supporting information not part of the body of the paper such as your Business Plan, or other relevant documentation.NYUSPS Policies:Center for Student Accessibility If you are a student who is requesting accommodations, please contact New York University’s Moses Center for Students Accessibility (CSA) at 212-998-4980 or mosescsa@nyu.edu. You must be registered with CSA to receive accommodations. Information about the Moses Center can be found at www.nyu.edu/csa. The Moses Center is located at 726 Broadway on the 3rd floor.  Health and Wellness To access the University's extensive health and mental health resources, contact the NYU Wellness Exchange. You can call its private hotline (212-443-9999), available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to reach out to a professional who can help to address day-to-day challenges as well as other health-related concerns.Academic Integrity and Plagiarism PolicyAll students are expected to be honest and ethical in all academic work. This trust is shared among all members of the University community and is a core principle of American higher education. Any breaches of this trust will be taken seriously. A hallmark of the educated student and good scholarship is the ability to acknowledge information derived from others. Students are expected to be scrupulous in crediting those sources that have contributed to the development of their ideas.Plagiarism involves borrowing or using information from other sources without proper and full credit. Students are expected to demonstrate how what they have learned incorporates an understanding of the research and expertise of scholars and other appropriate experts; and thus, recognizing others' published work or teachings—whether that of authors, lecturers, or one's peers—is a required practice in all academic projects. Students are subject to disciplinary actions for the following offenses which include but are not limited to:• Cheating• Plagiarism• Forgery or unauthorized use of documents• False form of identificationUse the link below to read more about Academic Integrity Policies at the NYU School of Professional Studies. Academic Policies for NYU SPS StudentsTURNITINTurnItIn is a plagiarism detection software used to verify academic originality. It is available only to degree courses and students. Some assignments in this course may be checked by the instructor for plagiarism using Turnitin.NYU School of Professional Studies Graduate Grading ScaleGrading for graduate programs is by letter grade: A, A-, B+, B, B-, C+, C, C-, and F. For NYUSPS’s complete graduate grading policies, including criteria for a grade of incomplete, taking a course on a pass/fail basis, and withdrawing from a course, see: https://www.sps.nyu.edu/homepage/student-experience/policies-and-procedures.html#Graduate1 Letter %GPADescriptionsDefinitionsA95-1004.0ExceptionalDemonstrates exceptional mastery of all learning outcomes of the course and thorough and complete understanding of all concepts. A-90-943.7ExcellentDemonstrates highly competent mastery of all learning outcomes of the course and strong understanding of all concepts. B+87-893.3Very Good; exceeds course standardsDemonstrates mastery of all learning outcomes of the course and understanding of core concepts. B83-863.0Good; meets course standardsDemonstrates mastery of some learning outcomes; understanding of some core concepts could be improved. B-80-822.7Somewhat Satisfactory; meets some course standards and requires improvementDemonstrates basic understanding of some learning outcomes; improved understanding of all core concepts is needed. C+77-792.3Less than Satisfactory; requires significant improvement Demonstrates partial understanding of all learning outcomes and core concepts; requires significant improvement. C73-762.0Unsatisfactory; requires substantial improvement Demonstrates partial understanding of some learning outcomes and core concepts; requires substantial improvement.C-70-721.7Unsatisfactory; requires extensive improvementDemonstrates poor understanding of all learning outcomes and core concepts; requires extensive improvement.FBelow 700.0FailDemonstrates minimal to no understanding of all key learning outcomes and core concepts; work is unworthy of course credit towards the degree.COURSE OUTLINE:Important Notes: ● See each session description below for which assignments and readings are due by each session and when they are due. Generally, each reading and each assignment shown below for each session is due by the date shown for each session. ● Where to find further Assignment Details and Further Information: In the Resources section of our course on the NYU Classes Learning Management System you will find many Project Planning and Project Management Templates available for your use in your Project. These include the following template documents (the instructor may add additional templates, if needed):o 02 Applied Project Proposal V5.1 Core.pdfo 03 SampleProjectCharter_with_sample_data_v2.3.docxo 03 -your-name-here- ProjectCharter_v2.3.docxo 04 Project_sponsor_Agreement_v3.1.docxo 05 ProjectStatusRpt_Template v3.docxo 05 -your-name-here- ProjectStatusRpt_Template v3.docxo 06 AppliedProjectFinalPaper v6.2.2015.docxo 07SponsorsProjectAcceptanceDocumentV2.1.docxo 08 SituationalAnalysisv2.docxo 10a Risk_Management_Plan_Template.doco 10c Risk_Analysis_Template.xlso 12 SAMPLE LiteratureSurveyDocument.docxo 13 SAMPLE SituationalAnalysisDocument.docxo Change_Management_Plan_Template.doco Change_Request_Form_Template.doco Change_Request_Log_Template.xlso Cost-Management-Plan _1_.docxo Schedule-Management-Plan _2_.docxo Scope-Management-Plan.doc Course Start Date: Wednesday, February 3, 2021 Course End Date: Wednesday, May 5, 2021	No Class Date(s): N/ASYNCHRONOUS SESSION 1: Wednesday, 3-Feb-2021The Applied Project Workflow and the Project Outline• The steps to a successful applied project• The Applied Project Workflow: Deliverables, milestones and key dates• Preparing the project proposal and understanding its elements• Due dates for final project completion and submission of the final paperRequired Reading (Prior to Session 1):A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge:• The Project Management Framework• Chapter 1- Introduction • Chapter 2- Project Life Cycle and Organization• Chapter 3- Project Management Processes for a ProjectAt the end of this week, students will:─ Analyze the Applied Project process and workflow.─ Evaluate the deliverables required for properly planning, conducting, monitoring, and completing your applied project.─ Organize the deliverables due dates and the final submission dates for meeting semester deadlines.─ Synthesize project goal, objectives and metrics. Organize these planning elements to properly construct key project artifacts using the “SMART” approach.SYNCHRONOUS SESSION 2: Wednesday, 10-Feb-2021Selecting and Planning the Applied Project. • Utilizing the project outline in securing a project sponsor• Researching appropriate projects• Selecting the proposed project idea• Project Sponsor Agreement• The Situational AnalysisAssignments (Prior to Session 2): • Complete the Applied Project Proposal• Complete the Project Sponsor Agreement including the sponsor’s signature.• Where to find Assignment deliverables templates: See Resources section of the NYU Classes Learning Management System Required Reading (Prior to Session 2):A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge• Chapter 4- Project Integration Management • Chapter 5- Project Scope Management • Chapter 6- Project Time ManagementAt the end of this week, students will:─ Describe the importance of the project sponsor to the successful outcome of your project.─ Create the project sponsor agreement and secure your sponsor’s agreement. Recognize the importance of the Wasserman internship materials.─ Analyze key elements of the “SMART” project goals, objectives and metrics. Create goal statement and objectives, in order to gain agreement from your sponsor via the pre-project sponsor acceptance document.─ Identify the important project management principles embodied in the ten PMBOK knowledge areas. Generate a plan to apply these principles to your project plan.SYNCHRONOUS SESSION 3: Wednesday, 17-Feb-2021The Literature Survey• Purpose of the literature survey• Sources of information for the literature survey• How to conduct the literature survey• Using RefWorks to organize and present your findingsAssignments (Prior to Session 3): • Literature Survey document• Where to find Assignment deliverables templates: See Resources section of the NYU Classes Learning Management System Required Reading (Prior to Session 3):Materials posted by the professor on the course website under Resources on the topic “Tone at the Top.”At the end of this week, students will:─ Design the Literature Review in the context of applied project planning activities. ─ Learn to identify and utilize important research tools and information sources to conduct your Literature Review.─ Create the Project Charter to appropriately support your project’s requirements, planning activities, and successful project execution. ─ Create a risk management plan that includes risk analysis, quantitative and qualitative assessment and risk mitigation strategies to control project risk.─ Explain how to utilize dependent tasks in designing your WBS so as to optimize your project plan. SYNCHRONOUS SESSION 4: Wednesday, 24-Feb-2021Planning the Applied Project and Creating the Project Charter • Purpose of the Charter• Detailed view of the Project Charter and its elements• Project Plan and Work Breakdown Structure (WBS)• Stakeholder analysis• Communications plan• Risk analysis and mitigation strategiesAssignments (Prior to Session 4): • Complete the Project Charter including project plan and WBS. Complete the Situational Analysis.• Where to find Assignment deliverables templates: See Resources section of the NYU Classes Learning Management System Readings (Prior to Session 4): A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge▪ Chapter 7- Project Cost Management▪ Chapter 8- Project Quality Management▪ Chapter 9- Project Human Resource Management▪ Chapter 10- Project Communications ManagementAt the end of this week, students will:─ Design your project’s Situational Analysis as a means of learning as much as possible about the components of the environment in which you will be operating as PM and implementer.─ Analyze Porter’s 5-Forces Model as a framework for conducting the Situational Analysis.─ Create the stakeholder analysis as a means of understanding project stakeholders and their relationship to your project.─ Generate the communications plan that will help you manage stakeholder communication.─ Analyze project status on a regular schedule using your communications plan as a guide.─ Generate project status reports including the informational requirements, format, details and schedule of project status reporting─ Explain Integration Management, Monitoring/Controlling Process Groups as applied in your project.SYNCHRONOUS SESSION 5: Wednesday, 3-Mar-2021How to Conduct the Applied Project• Working with your project sponsor• Reporting project progress• Risk recognition and activating your risk mitigation strategy• Organizing and writing your final paperAssignments (Beginning the week of Session 5): • Kick-off meeting with Project Sponsor and course Professor (individually scheduled for each student)• Where to find Assignment deliverables templates: See Resources section of the NYU Classes Learning Management System Assignments (Prior to Session 5): A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge• Chapter 11- Project Risk Management • Chapter 12- Project Procurement ManagementAt the end of this week, students will:─ Create a presentation of your project plans and organize your presentation for an effective meeting. Organize your kick-off meeting for maximum positive impact on your project plans and stakeholder relationships.─ Analyze the project final report. Design your report using elements from your plan as well as new material you will write upon conclusion of your project.─ Generate the sponsor acceptance document. Obtain sponsor sign off at the conclusion of your applied project.─ Create a baseline project plan.SYNCHRONOUS SESSION 6: Wednesday, 10-Mar-2021Managing Project Change.• The Change Management plan and its components• Importance of the change control board• Establishing your change control board and identifying members• The Change Management processAssignments: • Prepare and submit your project’s change management plano Where to find Assignment deliverables templates: See Resources section of the NYU Classes Learning Management System Readings (Prior to Session 6): A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge• Chapter 4.5- Integrated Change Management • (Optional - but recommended): Verzuh/ The Fast Forward MBA In Project Management • Change Management: pg. 76, 318-322, 327, 338At the end of this week, students will:─ Analyze the forces for change that will be impacting your project─ Organize project integrated change control tailored to your project.─ Determine the impact of reactive and requested changes to your project plans.─ Control the types of changes you will allow in your project.─ Assess change impact to project scope, deliverables, schedules, resources, etc. ─ Describe considerations for project change. Design processes for Requesting, Reviewing, Approving, Incorporating changes.─ Design a change control process to meet the needs of your project.─ Create a change control plan for your project utilizing the Change Control Template as an organizing tool.SYNCHRONOUS SESSION 7: Wednesday, 17-Mar-2021Live Coaching/Mentoring Session.• Bring your questions, project issues and problems to class and we will devote time to discuss and resolve each student’s project problems, difficulties or questions.The remaining 7 sessions will be on-line Asynchronous (pre-recorded). During this time, students are expected to complete any outstanding assigned course deliverables and will commence their individual project activities. ASYNCHRONOUS SESSIONS ASYNCHRONOUS (PRE-RECORDED) SESSION 8 Project Time Management• Plan schedule management• Define activities• Sequence activities• Estimate activity resources• Estimate activity durations• Develop schedule• Control scheduleReadings (Prior to Session 8): A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge• Chapter 6- Project Time Management • (Optional - but recommended): Verzuh/ The Fast Forward MBA In Project Management • Chapter 7- Schedule/Time Management At the completion of this Lesson, students will be able to implement these concepts in their individual applied project:• Define project activities and deliverables• Determine how to allocate time and resources to tasks and activities• Design a network Diagram• Analyze the Project Critical PathASYNCHRONOUS (PRE-RECORDED) SESSION 9Project Cost Management• Plan Cost Management• Estimate Costs• Determine Budgeto Control CostsReadings (Prior to Session 9): A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge• Chapter 7- Project Cost Management • (Optional - but recommended): Verzuh/ The Fast Forward MBA In Project Management • Chapter 8- Cost Management At the completion of this Lesson, students will be able to implement these concepts in their individual applied project:• Design an approximation of the monetary resources needed to complete project activities• Design an aggregate of estimated costs of individual activities or work packages to establish an authorized cost baseline• Analyze the status of the project to update the project budget and to manage changes to the cost baseline• Analyze several useful cost estimating techniques• Design cost and schedule metrics using Earned Value Management.ASYNCHRONOUS (PRE-RECORDED) SESSION 10Project Risk Management• Risk Management Planning• Risk Identification• Qualitative Risk Analysis• Quantitative Risk Analysis• Risk Response Planning• Monitoring and Controlling RisksAt the completion of this Lesson, students will be able to:• Define how to conduct risk management activities for a project• Analyze which risks affect the project and document their characteristics• Prioritize risks for further analysis• Numerically analyze the effect of identified risks on project objectives• Develop strategies and options for dealing with identified risks • Conduct risk response plans, track risks, evaluate the process for effectiveness ASYNCHRONOUS (PRE-RECORDED) SESSION 11 Project Stakeholder Management• Identify Stakeholders• Plan Stakeholder Management• Manage Stakeholder Engagement• Control Stakeholder EngagementReadings (Prior to Session 11): A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge• Pg. 30-35 and Chapter 13- Stakeholder Management • (Optional - but recommended): Verzuh/ The Fast Forward MBA In Project Management • Chapter 5- Stakeholder Management At the completion of this Lesson, students will be able to implement these concepts in their individual applied project:• Analyze project stakeholders including the people, groups, or organizations that could impact or be impacted by your project• Design a plan for Stakeholder Management• Manage Stakeholder Engagement• Control Stakeholder EngagementASYNCHRONOUS (PRE-RECORDED) SESSION 12 Project Communication Management• Stakeholder Identification• Communications Planning• Information Dissemination• Management of Stakeholder Expectations• Performance ReportingAt the completion of this Lesson, students will be able to:• Analyze the impact of individual organizational stakeholders on the project, and of the project on those stakeholders• Determine project stakeholder information needs and define a communication approach• Design a means of making relevant information available to project stakeholders• Communicate and work with stakeholders to meet their needs• Collect and disseminate project performance informationReadings (Prior to Session 12): PMBoK Chapter 10; (Optional - but recommended): Verzuh Chapter 11ASYNCHRONOUS (PRE-RECORDED) SESSION 13 Project Quality Management • Plan Quality Management• Planning and Implementing Quality Assurance Processes• Quality Assurance Tools• Controlling Project QualityReadings (Prior to Session 13): A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge• Chapter 8- Project Quality Management • (Optional - but recommended): Verzuh/ The Fast Forward MBA In Project Management • Quality Management: pg. 23-24; 145-146, 241At the completion of this Lesson, students will be able to implement these concepts in their individual applied project:• Design quality requirements and/or standards for the project and product• Synthesize quality requirements and quality control measurement results to ensure appropriate quality standards.• Analyze quality performance and recommend necessary changes to maintain project quality.• Design various quality tools to ensure project quality standards are met.ASYNCHRONOUS SESSION 14Recorded Coaching/Mentoring Session.• Submit your questions/project issues and problems to the professor by 9AM of the day prior to class date (Wednesday, May 5, 2021) and we will devote time to discuss and resolve each student’s difficulties. The session will be recorded.PROJECT KICK-OFF MEETINGS AND CONFERENCESEach student will also schedule and conduct a project kick-off meeting with their sponsor and the course professor. A template for the meeting will be posted in the Resources section of the course to guide the student in preparing for and conducting this important meeting. The main topic areas to be covered are:1. Project title. a. The industry and name of the organization, b. Including a brief description of the situational landscape. 2. The business problem or opportunity that your project will address.3. Your role on the project. a. Your sponsor’s role in the organization. b. Expectations from stakeholders. 4. An overview of your planned approach, a. high-level timeline, b. scope, c. and resource requirements. d. Overview of communications plan.5. Project goals and metrics: a. what you plan to achieve, b. and how you will measure results. c. Success Factors. 6. Any barriers; a. Major issues or potential risks you will need to overcome in order to succeed. b. Any Assumptions, c. and constraints.7. Your Sponsor should: describe the importance of this project to the organization and any other relevant information. During this time, the course professor will also be available for individual project mentoring sessions with each studentDuring the final 7-week sessions, we will hold individual project conferences, as follows:24-Mar-2021 to 5-May-2021: Individual Project Conferences.• By this time each student will have embarked upon their project and the focus shifts from a group class setting to individual conferences held with each student and their sponsor.• Specific time slots will be posted on the course shared calendar for individual project kick-off meetings with the student, the Project Sponsor and the course Professor (individually scheduled for each student).• Additional specific time slots will be available for individual status update and mentoring meetings with the course Professor and each student to review plans and progress. Final Assignments: Conduct and complete the applied project by the published semester deadline. Submit the Project Final ReportWhere to find Assignment Details and Further Information: See Resources section of the NYU Classes Learning Management System Project Status Reports: Due monthly upon the first week of each month, while the project is being conducted. A template for the status report will be available in the Resources section. In the case of issues that could affect project scope, schedule, etc., students must submit an immediate report to the instructor outlining the issues and/or changes without waiting for the next monthly status report.The professor reserves the right to make modifications to this syllabus as necessary. In such a case the new syllabus will be disseminated to the class and posted on the course pages in NYU Classes. Course ScheduleMOSKOWITZ_MASY1-GC4100_300_Applied Project Spring 2020.docx	P. 8 of 2114 of 18